Diane Kaplan- CS50 PSET4

0. How many different colors does each format support?
BMP: over 4 billion colors (32 bit) 
GIF: 256 colors (8 bits)
JPEG: 16.7 million colors (24 bit) 
PNG: over 16 million colors (supports 8-bit color and extends to 24-bits)

1. Which of the formats supports animation?
GIF supports animation- it enables transparency and interlacing (an image becomes progressively clearer as it downloads).  PNG and JPG do not. 

2. What’s the difference between lossy and lossless compression?
Lossy compression means that some data is lost (and not recoverable) every time you save a file.  Lossless means every bit of data in the original file remains after being uncompressed. 

3. Which of these formats is lossy-compressed?
JPG uses lossy compression.  GIF & PNG are lossless, and BMP doesn't allow image compression. 

4. What happens, technically speaking, when a file is deleted on a FAT file system?
The first character of the directory entry is modified to signal that it's been deleted and it's eligible for recycling, 
and its FAT clusters are moved to the list of free clusters for reuse.  The file's reference is no longer included in the containing directory. 
But that's it; the actual data is still intact until it's overwritten. There are also often multiple copies for redundancy. 

5. What can someone like you do to ensure (with high probability) that files you delete cannot be recovered?
Use one of the sanitization products listed in the article!  These can overwrite the memory with something else (imperfect if we use ASCII NUL bytes, 
since the magnetic field can suggest the previous value)- better to use multiple random passes.  Or, destroy it so it's not usable anymore.  
Another option for the department of defense is to use a Degausser to reset the magnetic state. 

6. What’s stdint.h?
This is a header file defining different integer types we can use. 

7. What’s the point of using uint8_t, uint32_t, int32_t, and uint16_t in a program?
First a little context: u is for unsigned (and anything without 'u'  is signed): signed can be positive or 
negative, and unsigned assumes not-negative (and can therefore go up higher). The number corresponds to how 
many bits it takes up. We use these in our bitmap copying because the format has a clear/rigid definition
of the size and sequence of specific parts, so if we're saving off those parts individually, we want to use 
the right size and type. 

8. How many bytes is a BYTE, a DWORD, a LONG, and a WORD, respectively?
BYTE: 1 byte (8 bits)
DWORD: 4 bytes (32 bits)
LONG: 4 bytes (32 bits)
WORD: 2 bytes (16 bits)

9. What (in ASCII, decimal, or hexadecimal) must the first two bytes of any BMP file be? 
(Leading bytes used to identify file formats (with high probability) are generally called "magic numbers.)"
Based on the chart for bitmap, the first two bytes are the bftype word in the file header, and they are: 
42 4D

10. What’s the difference between bfSize and biSize?
According to MSDN, the bisize is the size (in bytes) of 'the structure' (the BITMAPINFOHEADER), 
and the bfsize is the size (in bytes) of the bitmap file all together (including that header). 

11. What does it mean if biHeight is negative?
According to MSDN, a negative biHeight means the origin of the bitmap is the upper-left corner so it's
top-down. (Positive means lower-left origin, buttom-up). Where the origin is affects compression.  

12. What field in BITMAPINFOHEADER specifies the BMP’s color depth (i.e., bits per pixel)?
That's the biBitCount: 1 for monochrome, 4 for up to 16 colors, 8 for up to 256 colors, up to 32 for 2^32 colors. 

13. Why might fopen return NULL in copy.c:37?
This can happen if something goes wrong; file doesn't exist, we run out of memory, etc. 

14. Why is the third argument to fread always 1 in our code?
That third argument is how many times we read in, and in this case we're reading specific pieces one at a time. 

15. What value does copy.c:70 assign padding if bi.biWidth is 3?
a RGBTRIPLE is 3 bytes, and sizeof returns the number of bytes, so: 

int padding =  (4 - (bi.biWidth * sizeof(RGBTRIPLE)) % 4) % 4;
               (4 -  (    3      *  3)               %4   %4
               4 - (9 % 4) %4
               4 - (5)%4
               4 - 1
               = 3

16. What does fseek do?
fseek sets us update the position of a pointer, for example skipping past padding to get to the next meat. 

17. What is SEEK_CUR?
SEEK_CUR indicates that the offset we're moving over is relative to our current location.  
(Vs SEEK_SET- relative to beginning of the file- and SEEK_END, relative to the end)

18. Whodunit?
I see a picture of a guy smiling, with a suit and maybe a tie- I don't recognize him from Clue, but could ID him in a lineup :)
I got that by replacing pure red pixels with white (remaining picture is very light blue). 
I've tried a few other things to darken it, but so far everything obscures it. 

Update: I know someone in the class who mentioned it was Rick Astley when they got it working, but mine is too faint to see him clearly
